# Demos for Part IB Methods (and maybe other courses)

By J M F Tsang (`j.m.f.tsang@cantab.net`). 

The quickest way to use these is with Binder:
https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/jftsang/ibmethods-demos/master. But note that
Binder environments expire after a few minutes of inactivity.

These demos are maintained on
[GitHub](https://github.com/jftsang/ibmethods-demos) at
`jftsang/ibmethods-demos`, and I welcome any contributions or
corrections.


## Other course resources

Richard Jozsa's lecture notes from 2013 are probably the best reference
for the material in this course (but check the Schedules). They can be
found (together with many other resources for other courses) at
http://www.damtp.cam.ac.uk/user/examples/.

The classic textbook for this course is _Mathematical Methods for
Physics and Engineering_ by Riley, Hobson and Bence, [available at many
libraries](https://idiscover.lib.cam.ac.uk/primo-explore/search?query=any,contains,Riley%20Hobson%20Bence&tab=cam_lib_coll&search_scope=SCOP_CAM_ALL&sortby=rank&vid=44CAM_PROD&facet=frbrgroupid,include,66912111&lang=en_US&offset=0).
It also covers large parts of Variational Principles and Complex
Methods, amongst others (as well as the applied courses in Part IA).

The _Handbook of Mathematical Functions_ by Abramowitz and Stegun is a
good reference for formulae for special functions (such as Bessel
functions). A scanned version is [available
online](https://www.cs.bham.ac.uk/~aps/research/projects/as/) (big PDFs,
be warned). The [NIST Digital Library of Mathematical
Functions](https://dlmf.nist.gov/) is the successor of this book.

A YouTube series on distribution theory (might provide some insights
about how to think about delta functions):
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gwVEEUg8PBY

For those interested in rigorous foundations of the material in this
course, _An Introduction to Hilbert Space_ by Young ([available online
to Cambridge University
members](https://idiscover.lib.cam.ac.uk/permalink/f/t9gok8/44CAM_ALMA51527612230003606))
and _Partial Differential Equations_ by Evans
([libraries](https://idiscover.lib.cam.ac.uk/permalink/f/t9gok8/44CAM_ALMA21446172250003606))
may be of interest. But be warned that the language and approach is very
different from the one taken in this course.

## Miscellaneous

These demos are licenced under Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike
4.0 International
Licence](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0).  ![Creative
Commons License](https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-sa/4.0/88x31.png).
This means you are free to use, distribute and modify them as you wish,
provided you cite the creator.

Please report any bugs, mistakes or suggestions to me, either by email
(`j.m.f.tsang@cantab.net`) or (preferably) on the Issues tab on GitHub. 
